Once upon a time, there was a prince named Gualtieri. He was the Marquis of Saluzzo. He had spent a huge amount of his time hunting and playing other sports.


He never thought about marrying and starting a family. All his subjects were scared that old age would overtake him and he would not be able to establish a family.


Everyone pressured him to marry. To silence the critics, he resolved to court a beautiful but poor woman from a nearby village. She was a young woman. The prince thought that her family's low condition would spite those who pressured the king to marry. The prince thought that the beauty of the woman would make living with her bearable.


The prince asked Griselda if she would marry him. He asked the lady if she wanted to accept him as his husband. He also asked if she would never criticize or question his authority.


She agreed happily and they were married together. The lady appeared to be an addition that was worthy in the house of the prince.


The marquis was not sure of her character and decided to test her patience and loyalty.


After the birth of their first child, he informed the lady that his subjects were not happy with the child. He told the lady that the beautiful child was to be put to death.


Without any hesitation, she accepted the orders of the prince and surrendered her child. Instead of killing the girl, the prince got her spirit away and hid the child in a secret place.


Griselda gave birth to a son. Her husband wanted to test her further. He insisted her child be put to death.


Griselda again accepted the demands of her husband. Her husband took the child to a secret place where he was cared for.


Gualtieri was still unsatisfied and wanted to take the final test for her wife. He denounced Griselda publicly. He claimed that the pope had given him dispensation to divorce Griselda and marry a deserving wife.


Griselda was sent back to her father. She tolerated all this without any complaint.


As the day approached to marry another woman, Gualtieri called Griselda to the palace as no one knew how to prepare for the guests better than her.


Griselda returned to the palace as a cleaning woman and made preparations for her former husband's wedding.


Gualtieri got his and Griselda's daughter dressed in bridal clothes and she was presented to Griselda. Griselda did not know that the bride was her daughter.


Gualtieri asked Griselda, "What do you think about my new bride?".


Griselda replied, "If the wisdom of the girl matches the beauty, the two of you will be very happy together".


Recognizing the faithfulness, patience, and sincerity of Griselda, Gualtieri told her about the trials that he had devised to test her.


Griselda received her children with joy and assumed the position of Gualtieri's wife.


